Floating Tomb of the Griffon Prince: There once was a young man of a royal family, the heir to the throne whose greatest passion was to soar the skies on the back of a trained griffon. His brash nature and love for flight led him to dare the clouds during a severe thunderstorm, and a bolt of lightning struck him down. His remains were interred, together with those of the griffon, within an enchanted mausoleum that floats in the air. The structure rises upwards during morning hours, reaching the level of clouds at noon, then slowly descends but never touches the ground.
Little Sun: In the center of a large city a high tower stands, with a great golden sphere mounted on it's top. When the time of winter comes, dark and bitterly cold, the people of the city gather round the tower's perimeter to pray to the sun god. Should their prayers be answered, the golden orb lights with intense brightness, illuminating the town beneath and bathing it in summerlike heat. This artifact is known as the Little Sun.
Waterrise: There is a particular river that is unlike any other in the world, a river that runs sometimes downhill, sometimes uphill. Nowhere is the supernatural quality of this river as apparent as at the part of it called the Waterrise. It is the reverse of a waterfall, a place where foaming water rushes up the side of a cliff.
Stone Soldiers: A grassy plain is dotted with unmoving figures of thousands of armed men; two war hosts locked in mortal combat; troops entwined in the clash of melee and officers frozen in the midst of shouting commands. They are all statues of dull gray stone, having been collectively petrified at the exact same moment hundreds of years ago. None know what exactly caused their demise - some say it was divine punishment for shedding blood on a holy day, others blame it on an ancient curse upon the battlefield itself or even a spell cast by an archwizard determined to stop the war by any means.
Ice Palace: At the capital of a desert kingdom is a magnificent palace constructed entirely of ice that somehow refuses to melt. The interior of this palace provides a pleasantly cool retreat for the royal court during the hottest days, and the vistas of sunlight glittering on the blocks of ice are captivatingly beautiful.
Marine Bridge: An incredibly long bridge that spans across a wide sea, connecting two continents. Crossing it is such a lenghthy journey that travelers require resting places along the way, thus many small fortified towerhouses have been built on the bridge roughly a day's travel apart. These houses serve as inns but also double as tolling stations due to their ability to completely block passing traffic.
Pillar of the Heaven: A freestanding marble pillar that appears to be infinitely tall. It's surface is inscribed with a chiselled text that spirals upwards along the shaft. No one has been able to read more than the beginning parts of this text, but it seems to be telling some kind of epic story - presumably a never-ending tale.
Whistling Mountain: A hollow mountain punctured by many holes on it's slopes. Wind constantly blows through these cavities in such way that it creates a pleasant melodious sound.
Isle of Giant Flowers: Ordinary species of flowers grow into gigantic proportions on this isle, rivaling the tallest of the world's trees. Despite the best efforts of master gardeners, importing soil and seeds from the isle to be planted elsewhere has never resulted in anything but normal-sized flowers.
Everchanging Mosaic: The ceiling of a certain cathedral is decorated with an enchanted mosaic that changes on it's own at every dawn. The picture never changes completely, only a few details of it are altered. So many mornings have passed since it's creation that not a single bit remains the same as it originally was.
The tower arch: This tower bends over to the side until it forms half a hoop and touches the ground. It is ancient, and none are left that rememmer which side was built first. When entering the tower, the stairs always seem to go straight up until one encounters a door leading outside, which leads you outside on the other side.
Holey Stones: These stones can be found in ancient sacred places over the land. Legend says they are portals to other worlds if you climb through them at the right time of the year and phase of the moon. The builders and users of these stones are long dead and the knowledge to use them is lost. Other stones near it might give some clue as to the right time to climb through and where it'll actually open a portal to. That is if you can read the ancient patterns and writing on the stones. It's probably worth finding out where a portal takes you BEFORE you use it!
The Black Towers: They seem to be very old but still in good shape. They are three stories high, with one portal closed by double doors. Upon entering you find yourself in a round chamber with one dozen doors around the circumference. (There is no way to reach the upper stories.) If you go through one of the other doors you will exit another Black Tower somewhere else! Some doors lead to steaming jungle, other to howling desert, and one to a frozen wasteland. Some doors might not lead to places in this world...
Ghost Village: By day, the dirt path leads off the main road to a cluster of charred timbers, a piece of burnt junk here and there, nothing more. This small farming village was razed during the last war. But at night, travelers find a bustling village preparing to celebrate the summer solstice. The villagers run about, working, playing, loving, fighting. But they never notice the living, and if a traveler tries to disturb their nightly errands the entire apparition disintegrates into dust.
Aggressive Forest: This forest is at least a hundred leagues across, and only a combined effort on the part of several allied kingdoms manages to keep it that small. It grows at an astonishing rate. Left unchecked, it gains tens and hundreds of square feet every night. No one ever sees the trees actually growing. You go away and when you come back they're just...there. Of course lumberjacking and carpentry are very popular trades around the perimeter - but a war or a plague could stop work and then who knows how big it would grow? If only there was someone brave enough to go in and find the source of this magical growth...
Unreachable Arch: As you cross the river plains, you'll see it to the north, a silver archway of colossal size. By day it glistens in the sun. But don't bother heading toward it. Just keep heading west. Many have tried to reach the Arch and failed. Oh, the way is not treacherous, it's just that the Arch doesn't really seem to be there. No matter how far you walk toward it, it never seems to get closer. Whether it's an illusion or a flaw in space matters not. It's some kind of magic left behind from the old days and you're best off steering clear of it. Not that you can get near it. But steer clear!
Citadel of the Destroyer: Every #years a bright star appears in the southern sky for fortnights. Once per fortnight it rains fire, scorching the lands below indiscriminately. Legend says that this star is the mighty citadel of the one who will destroy the world; aptly dubbed "The Destroyer". Scholars and seers can only speculate as to when, but everyone agrees on how: The Destroyer will set the entire world aflame burning everyone and everything to ash.
Cursed Reef: On cold foggy nights at sea, when the air bites and the wind is dead. Old salts tell stories of a reef that moves with the fog. Once the fog swallows up a ship it runs aground in a treacherous reef never to be seen again. No one knows what causes the fog, but some say it is caused by a sailor's betrayal. Beware a man who speaks of mutiny, he could lead your ship into death.
Drowned Tower of Thunder: Long ago the god of Lightning and god of thunder warred at the top of a great tower in the heavens. Lightning bested his brother Thunder in their epic struggle, and trapped him in the tower, he then cast the entire tower deep to the center of all oceans. Thunder rages eternally trapped within the tower deep under water causing waves throughout all the oceans with his mighty thrashings.
Hidden Battlefield: In a forgotten place deep in a dark forest lies a sword stuck in the trunk of ancient tree. The hilt of the sword can be barely seen beneath the vines and moss of the tree. Grasping the hilt of the sword takes a person to a far away time. They unwary would-be sword wielder finds themselves on a battlefield of a war between two kingdoms that history has long since forgot. Two armies clash for matters of honor and victory in hopes to be free of their penance. Both armies fight to the last man, dead strewn about the battlefield as far as the eye can see. However after a short time the soldier's wounds heal, armors and weapons mend, and they stand up to start over again in an endless cycle of war and death. Those transported to this place find that they have no means of escape much like the damned souls on the battlefield.
Keep of Solitude: A keep made of black stone sits on a peak above the clouds in an impassable mountain range. A the center of the keep, a giant of a man sits on a throne made of black glass surrounded by volumes of his exploits throughout the ages. Sword and armors deck the halls in near endless variety from different times, places, and even worlds. If one to read the volumes one would find that this man is deathless, an immortal hero of a thousand worlds. However it is obvious his heart is heavy with the memories of countless battles, loved ones saved and gone, time crumbling the worlds he visits and yet he remains. Silently, he sits with his head in his hands too heavy raise, and too little left to discover. He is one of the few that could tell all those seeking immortality that it has endless costs.
Blessed Gorge: At the heart of a land of rolling hills and sprawling meadows that resists age and change lies a small gorge of perfect serenity. Regardless of the sounds outside and around it, within the gorge nothing but blissful silence can be heard, even sounds made within the gorge happily turn to whisper. Days are brighter, but calmer. Many who know of this place feel blessed if they walk through it as long as they enter and leave in peace. Fate and luck seem to favor those after they've crossed through the gorge, at least until they break the unspoken peace accord that was made for such a blessing.
Pit of Souls: Labyrinthine canyons surround a hole made of pure evil. The Pit of Souls has no bottom, or if even such a concept can be applied to this place. Whatever goes into the pit is swallowed up by impenetrable darkness. Near constantly things; creatures of evil crawl their way up the walls of the pit or fly out of its blackness. Some say this is the place where all monsters come from, others say evil spawns monsters where ever it concentrates, and this is just one such place.
Bloody caves: Ancient stories tell of the "Mad Lord" who became obsessed with a particular peasant girl. The girl had heard rumors of the Lord's depravities and the horrible fates of the girls whom had accepted his offers, so she refused him six times in six years. Fed up with the girls protests he sent a battalion of soldiers to the small lake town she lived in. The soldiers began pillaging the town in her name. The townsfolk knew they were outmatched and fled into the local foothills where they kept emergency stored in the caves within. The soldiers easily followed all the townsfolk, a number in the thousands, into the caves. The townsfolk expected to resist while fortified within their caves, but alas they were mistaken. The soldiers, led at the head by the Mad Lord cut through the townsfolk as lumberjacks through trees. The cave walls dripped in innocent's blood. Until at least the lone survivor was the peasant girl. Going into those caves even today, centuries later, the walls glisten with dripping blood, constantly. And you can still hear the dying screams of a peasant girl echoing within.
Cliffs of Faith: Sharp rocks litter the base of these cliffs, but it is well known that if someone jumps off these particular cliffs their body never hits the bottom. In fact they disappear all together. Most locals believe that the Gods snatch the person from the air. A common local custom has the sick and elderly leap from the cliffs to be taken into the hands of the Gods. Who knows what actually happens to them?
Statue of the Heroine: Mysteriously a large marble statue of a warrior woman sits in the middle of a field slightly sunk into the soft ground. No one knows who she is, or how the statue got there. Some believe she is a petrified warrior from a long ago age, others think that the statue was simply a delivery for a local hero in a far away land which was hijacked by bandits. A word is carved deep into the marble on the base of the statue, but most of the word is sunk into the ground, and it is in an alphabet know one has ever been able to translate.
Shamble Towers: in the hinterlands there stand 3 towering buildings pushing over a thousand feet into the sky in the middle of the forest. They have been built within recorded history, but no one knows who, or how. The towers appear to be made of cast off construction materials of a hundred civilizations across a thousand years of history. A Corinthian column top here, an Qin statue there, a Sumerian wall in another place. By any logical viewpoint the towers should not be standing. They are constructed in a way that they should fall, they give off no magical aura, and no one has been seen to be doing upkeep on them. Few have entered the buildings, fewer still have returned. Most of those who have have been driven insane.
The Twin Cities: In an attempt to stave off the destruction of their city by an ancient apocalypse, the leaders shifted it to the Astral plane for a thousand years. About one hundred years ago another city was founded on the same ground. When the thousand years had ended, the first city reappeared and the second city shifted to the Astral Plane. Then a year later, the second city appeared and the first was shunted back to Astral Space. No one is quite sure why or when the flips occur, though they seem to happen no more frequently than once per week and rarely less frequently than once every four weeks. The first city is a Classical Splendor of a bygone age. The second city is a Modern Metropolis, possibly the most advanced city in the world. Magicians and Historians are drawn to the first, while scientists and alchemists are drawn to the second.
The Inverted Domes: At the top of a now extinct volcano lie 3 hemispheres cut into the rock like inverted domes. The hemispheres are 30ft in diameter, 5 feet deep, and perfectly shaped. Water does not collect in these domes, but there is no drainage. People who have ventured into them find themselves levitated via unknown means above the ground. As people rise they claim a feeling of being inundated by some unknown force. Every living thing to have reached feet above the ground has exploded with a strange display. The Westmost dome has a Viridian explosion, the Eastmost dome has a Golden explosion, and the Centermost dome gives off a Prismatic explosion. History does not record the creation of the domes, nor has any scientist or magician determined the purpose of the domes.
The Golden Door: Starting #years ago a golden colored door appeared on a small island off the coast for minutes each morning at dawn for years. For some reason it stopped. The Golden Door began appearing years ago. People who go through the door are never seen again. There is an inscription in the door frame, but it is in an unknown language.